Let's actually get some IMs showing up
as well as information about the user's cart,
how many items they have in there and in the tally.
Now, the question is now how do we query the users cart?
And if you remember from way back
in the start of this course,
we had created this user component here.
And the point of the user component
is to tuck away all the complexity
of this current user query which is gonna get quite large,
as well as being able to write the query component,
pass in the query, and then pass the data down.
So, where we're using this right now is in our nav,
and we simply just need to give ourselves a user component
and that will expose the currently logged in user.
Then, inside of that user, we have information
about their name and their email address.
And now we're gonna be able to query the users cart.
So, we're gonna reuse this user component here
and then just modify this query to be a little bit bigger.
Let's open up our cart.js here,
and we'll import that user component right from the top.
So, import user from,
then we're gonna go down to our cart
and we're gonna add yet another level of Render Prop.
Again, hold on to your pants, we're gonna look at a way
that we can use something called adopt
where we don't have to nest these infinitely,
'cause this is a fairly simple example
where we've got three possible
or two queries in one mutation inside of an item.
And it's possible that you might have six or seven
of these queries and mutation in the component,
and that's the surefire way to ruin your day
by having to nest them 100 levels deep,
so we will be looking at how to refactor that.
Don't worry.
For now, let's just wrap it up.
The very top level, we have a user,
and then at the top level we have a arrow function.
And, we are gonna destructure data
and then destructure it one level further
into a variable called me.
Then, inside of there, these need to be curly brackets,
because we're gonna say if there is no me, return null,
'cause we don't wanna show the cart
unless the person is actually logged in.
Otherwise, we want to return parentheses
and then we're gonna take that closing parenthesis
and the closing user tag here, and go for a bit of a trip,
all the way to the bottom of that other mutation.
Give it a save.
Now, what should happen is if we've console log me,
right here, you see that the user is currently being shown,
which is really good.
We have all of the user's information.
We have their name.
We can right away go here and change our your
with me.name.
And then you see Wes Bos Cart.
Actually, need to put an apostrophe S there,
and if you wanted to, you could do the logic of,
if the letter ends in S, then just put an apostrophe,
otherwise, do apostrophe S.
I don't care.
We'll leave it like that for simplicity's sake.
That's good, but we don't have access to the user's cart.
So, that's where we actually need to go
into our user.js component and modify this query here
to also include the cart.
So, if we were to include the cart,
you need inside of a cart is going to be many cart items.
So, each cart item will have an ID,
and they'll also have a quantity.
So, let's open up this.
Open up the cart.
And you see that inside of the cart there is a cart ID
and a quantity of items.
So, that already allows us to quickly sum up
how many items are in their cart.
So, head back to our cart.js and we'll swap out this
with me.cart.length.
It says you have two items in your cart.
If there's only one item, we can kinda modify that.
Take the S off of items.
We'll put a curly bracket there.
We'll say if me.cart.length is equal to one
then return nothing, otherwise, return an S.
And that way, if they have one item
it'll say you have one item in your cart.
Otherwise, it'll show items, plural.
Everything is good.
We are also going to add up the quantity, shortly,
and that's actually gonna go in a little red bubble
next to my cart.
So, if you have two of one item and one of the other item,
it should show three.
In this case, it just shows two,
because those are the different number of items
that we have.
Good.
Now, let's go ahead and start looping over
all of the different items that are in our cart,
so we can show what the user has there.
So, we're gonna go and give ourselves an unordered list,
and inside of that, we're going to take the users cart,
me.cart,
and we're gonna map over it.
And for each cart item, we're going to return,
right now let's just return a list item
that has the cartItem.id,
just to make sure that this looping is working properly.
There we go.
You see that there's two items in our cart,
and they are now showing up.
If I were to add another item to our cart,
I don't believe that it's going to show up
because we have it re-fetched.
But, let's try it right now,
and we'll look at how we can re-fetch the current user query
after we add something to cart.
So, close that, add another item to cart, open up my cart.
There's still only two items so if I immediately refresh,
you'll see that there are now three items in my cart.
So, how do we fix that?
Well, when you add an item to your cart,
we should be able to re-fetch the current user query.
So, let's open up the add to cart real quick.
And this is the mutation right here.
We just have to add a re-fetch query to this mutation.
So, we'll go up to the top
and we'll import the current user
query from
user.
Let's triple check that we actually exported that
from user.js.
Yeah, we did.
Good.
Then we'll go down here and say,
re-fetch queries is equal to an array,
and there's one query in there with the query property
that's called current user query.
Now, if I close this, there's three.
I don't believe I have this Rimowa in there,
so, I'm gonna add it.
We'll go back to our cart,
and you see that there's four items
automatically in our cart because it re-fetched it,
so that's really nice.
We can close that down and then head back here.
Now, I'm not gonna actually do all of the looping
inside of here because each cart item
should be a separate component.
So, let's go ahead and create a new component
that we're going to use to output,
instead of this list item here.
Go to components, create a new file, capital C Cart,
capital I, Item.js,
import react from react.
We're gonna import a helper function
called format money from,
go up a level into the lib folder,
and then there's a little one called format money.
That will be helpful in just a second.
And then we also wanna import styled,
and we're gonna write the styles for this one ourselves
from styled-components.
We'll make our cart item styles here.
That's a style.li.
And then we'll make our cart item.
Let's just return a cart item styles.
It says, hi, and then export default cart item.
Then we'll go back to our cart JS
and import that at the top of our file.
And we'll go ahead and swap out this LI here
with a cart item tag.
But, of course, we'll need a key because we're looping over,
so, we'll say cartItem.id.
And, we'll also need to pass the cart item via a prop
to that.
So, now it says, hi, four times.
If we go back to our cartItem.js, we should be able to
interpolate props.cartItem.id.
You can see that they're being passed down.
If you don't believe me, we can inspect it.
Go to our react dev tools
and find our cart item.
And you see that the props has cart item.
While we're at it, let's write a click prop type for that.
And I'm just gonna put it as an object.
You can shape it a little further
for the values that are inside of it.
I think that's pretty beginner stuff,
so I'm not gonna go too much into that.
Alright, we're lookin good.
Let's move this down.
Now, inside of that cart item,
obviously we don't wanna just put the ID,
but we wanna put a whole bunch of information
inside of that.
Now, as we want to start templating out
all of this information,
you'll notice that we don't have very much information
about the item that's in the cart.
We only have the quantity and the ID.
So, how do we get more information
about the stuff that's inside of there?
Well, we need to modify our query
so that we're pulling in the information.
We need things like title in the image, and the quantity,
and the price, and all that good stuff.
So, well, how does that work?
Well, we'll go back to our user.js.
We'll go back to our cart query.
And do I just start adding title
and price and image inside of here?
No, we don't do that.
And, why don't we just put the values
that we want directly in here?
Because this is a cart item
and where is all the details about the item?
It's not in the cart item.
It actually has a relationship to the item,
so, we need to go one step further
where we grab the item that's inside of the cart item,
and then inside of that, we can grab the ID, the price,
the image, the title, the description,
and everything that we want about us.
Let's give that a save.
And if we go to our console,
I think we still have that console log in there.
Let's see here.
So, we have the user.
Inside of the user is a cart.
Inside of each cart item has that cart item has an ID,
it has a quantity, and then inside of that you have an item,
which shows us that the Patagonia Black Hole.
This the price of it, here's the ID, here's the description,
and here's the image.
So, that's really helpful.
The real power of GraphQL is that you can go infinitely.
You'll know that each item has a user,
and each user has
a name and an email associated with it.
So, look, can we go even further?
Let's see.
So the user has a cart, which has a cart item,
which has an item, which has a user, which has an email.
But, can we go even further?
Each user has a cart, which has an item,
which has a user,
which has an email.
You get the point right here?
Because of all of the relationships between each other,
and since I've created all the data, it will all be me,
but if you really wanted to list whose item
you're trying to buy, you totally could.
So, we have a user that has a cart, that has a cart item,
that has an item, that has a user, that has a cart,
that has an item, that has a user,
that has (laughing) an email address.
Right?
That's the whole power of GraphQL.
We can drill down as far as we want
and we are only pulling the very little information
that we want.
And, obviously, we're not gonna do that,
so let's back that up.
We do want the user.
We do want their cart.
We do want the information about their cart items.
We do want the information about each cart item's item.
And then for each of those, we wanna grab the price ID,
image, title, and description.
So, that's the data that we want there.
That will allow us to jump back into the cart item here.
Head inside here,
let's just try to get the image showing up first.
So, let's give ourselves an image tag
where the source is going to be props.cartItem.item.image.
And you see that we've got all of the things
that are in our cart, images showing up.
We can put a width on those.
Let's put a width of 100 on that.
Make it a little bit smaller.
Looking good.
One other thing we can do
is we can destructure this props into cart item directly.
So, we can give ourselves a parenthesis
and destructure into cart item.
And then we don't have to say props.cartitem.
And I broke it.
What did I do?
Two equals?
There we go.
And we can go even further and destructure that
into just an item variable, which would be okay,
but we need the cart item to show quantity,
so we're not gonna destructure that any further.
Just the cart item.
Now, lets template it all out.
The alt tag is going to be the cartitem.item.title.
Then we're gonna have a div with cart item details.
Inside of that we want an H3 tag.
That has the title so we can scrap this again.
Below that we want a paragraph tag.
We're going to output the cartItem.item.price.
That's the price, but we wanna format that,
so I have that handy little format money function
that we imported earlier.
You'll see how much.
Oh, that seems a bit expensive for a backpack.
But you see the point that we've got there.
Let's put this on their own line,
'cause inside of this paragraph I want to have a dash
and then below that I want an EM tag,
and we're going to add up the total of what we have.
So, let's first list out the quantity, so cartItem.quantity.
They have two of this one, one of this one, one of that one,
and I believe if I were to click add to cart,
it automatically updates the three.
Good.
And then we want our times, the cart item price.
Look at this one, $34.23 times one, times that.
Obviously, we have to wrap this in format money,
and then we need to make this the total,
not just the amount for one.
So, we can go back up here
and take the price for one of them
and multiply it by the quantity that have in their cart,
so, cartItem.quantity.
That, again, that's on the cart item,
not the actual item itself.
And you see, here we go, 7,000.
And now if I were to add another backpack to my cart,
you see that it will update it to 9,000.
Click it again.
Actually, one thing we didn't do there is
that this add to cart should be disabled
as it's sort of doing the work and going to the back end.
So, let's do that real quick.
Jump to add to cart.
We'll take this button here and this add to cart function,
if you give it a second argument, and destructure that
we can get our error and our loading states.
We just care about the loading right now.
And we can go to our button and say,
disabled
is equal to loading.
Now, when I click it, the button goes gray
for a split second.
And then we can also add an ING to this.
So we'll say, if it's loading then we add ING.
Beauty!
I love those little, nice little interface tricks
where it makes it much more pleasant
to actually work with.
Let's go back to our cart item
and keep working on getting everything shown up.
And we'll just add an each behind here.
So, it tells the user how many they have.
So, Patagonia Black Hole, $18,000,
which is eight times 2,000 bucks each.
I think that's all the info we need here.
Let's jump up to the cart item styles
and write a little bit of CSS
to make it look a little bit better.
So, we'll add some padding, one rem zero,
border bottom, one pixel solid,
and I wanna grab the light gray value.
Lookin' good.
And display grid on that, and align the items in center.
Grid template columns.
And that'd be auto one FR auto.
Beautiful!
Grab the image that's inside of there.
Margin right 10PX.
Good little bit of space on it.
Grab the H3 margin zero.
Well actually take the margin off the paragraph tag as well.
Things are looking pretty snazzy.
Last thing that we need to do here
is to actually run the total,
because this is still hard coded.
So, if we go back to our cart.js,
go to the bottom here,
and we're gonna use another utility function.
Let's open it up real quick.
It's called calc total price.
It lives in the lib
and it basically takes in the user's cart,
and it does a reduce, which will take every single item
and sort of mash them into each other.
We start with zero cents and then for each one
we get a tally and the cart item,
and then if there is a cart item in there,
because that's one thing we haven't done yet.
There's a possibility that you add something to your cart
and then someone deletes the item.
But you still have a cart item
that is relation to something that doesn't exist,
so we need to make sure that that item is still there.
Otherwise, we're just gonna skip that one
and then we are going to return the tally
times the new amount that we have.
So, let's import that.
Go back up to the top here, import calc
total price
from go up a level into the lib,
and grab the calc total price function,
and we can go back here and just swap out that 10.10
with calc total price and then pass it me.cart.
Bam!
Oh, that's one thing.
It's just showing us the amount in cents,
so we've got to wrap it one more time
in the format money function,
which we have to import just yet.
So, I'll go up to the top, duplicate this line,
and then just use the format money.
There we go!
$22,000 worth of stuff showing in here.
In the next video, what we're gonna do
is we're gonna handle removing of cart items
'cause there's no real way to do that right now.